notepad lab2_summary.txt

Lab M3.02 - Working with Git Branches

What a branch is:
A branch in Git is a separate line of development. It allows me to work on a new feature without changing the main stable version of the project. In this lab, I created a branch called Feature-login to build the login feature separately.

Why branches are useful:
Branches are useful because they keep new work isolated. I can build, test, and commit changes on a feature branch without affecting the main branch. This is important in real projects because teams can work on different features at the same time safely.

What happens when you merge:
When you merge, Git brings the changes from one branch into another branch. In this lab, I merged Feature-login into my main branch, which is called master on my laptop. After the merge, the login.py file and the login commits became part of the master branch history.

Challenges I faced:
One challenge was that my main branch is called master instead of main. I learned that some Git versions use master as the default branch name. So when the lab said main, I used master.

Another challenge was understanding why login.py disappeared when I switched back to master before the merge. I learned that this is normal because login.py only existed on the Feature-login branch until it was merged.

I also saw the message "Already up to date" when merging. I learned that this means the master branch already had the Feature-login changes.

Commands I used:
git branch - shows all branches and marks the current branch with an asterisk.
git checkout -b Feature-login - creates a new branch and switches to it.
git status - shows the current state of the working directory.
git add login.py - stages the login.py file for commit.
git commit -m "message" - saves staged changes into Git history.
git checkout master - switches back to the master branch.
git merge Feature-login - merges the Feature-login branch into master.
git log --oneline - shows a short version of the commit history.
dir - shows the files in the project folder.

Difference between master and Feature-login:
Feature-login was used to build the login feature safely. Master was the main stable branch. After merging, master also contained the login.py file and the commits from Feature-login.